It seems that as time is progressing, websites are incorporating more and more fancy features. Clean transitions, tons of images, animations. Websites are becoming increadibly dynamic. While when done properly it can leave a strong impression upon visitors, an effect desperately desired by business', people have become too desperate for this. The problem with many of these sites is that you cannot really break the site down into just text. You cannot load the website using a CLI program properly like Lynx. Now why is that a problem? Why should we continue to adapt to archaic technology? Two reasons:
1. Performance. While most people are browsing on the multicore hyperthreading processors paired with gigabytes of memory and a decent APU or GPU, not everyone has this luxury. There are plenty of old computers that struggle with these sites. While you might ask "why should I care about these poor schmucks?" The reason is because you shouldn't discriminate based off hardware. That old Thinkpad is not e-waste yet. It can still type documents, it can still display images, it can still send e-mails. But it struggles on these new websites. There is a reason why critical government sites (atleast from my experience, and atleast what I believe) generally look extremely outdated. Because if they filled the site with garbage extras, many users with inferior hardware will struggle to use the site.
2. Monopolies. AFAIK many of these fancy features require features that are only available on modern browser engines. There is only a tiny spoonful of browser engines competing. IIRC, there is one by Apple, one by Mozilla and one by Google. All web browsers are built upon these browser engines. Google is an increadibly anti-consumer company that frankly deserves to be run into the ground, and Apple could change at any moment. That leaves Mozilla with Gecko. But Gecko AFAIK is inferior to both Apple and Google's engines and furthermore, Mozilla is under Google's thumb and is mostly funded by Google. What is the natural result of this? People will want to use the browser that supports all the latest features that make their websites look butter smooth. But then this has the result of concentrating power in the hands of a select few companies. We saw the effects of this when Google tried to kill of adblock. This is a critical issue that is underaddressed. If websites are simplified, this will make browser engines significantly easier to make and might create an environment that will allow for more browser engines to compete.
While these issues might seem like a nothingburger to most people, I care about this because I feel like everyday I am losing control of the technology I rely on, and this is not a feeling I am comfortable with. Unless things change in the future, I hate modern sites.
